

 # port 500
 # ipsec: ipsec is a group of protocols that are used together to set up encrypted connections between device.
        it helps keep data secure sent over public networks. its often used to set up VPN.
		it works by encrypting IP packets along with authenticating the source where the packets come from.
				
	VPN logins are usually password-based. users require application.
	IPsec protocols add several headers and trailers to packets. either the MSS and MTU have used to be adjusted.	

    MTU for a network is 1500 bytes.. a IP header is 20 bytes long .. a TCP header is  20 bytes long.. 1460 bytes of payload.
	however ipsec adds an authentication header.. an esp header and associated trailers. These add 50-60 bytes to a packet, or more..

	
 #IPsec tunnel mode and IPsec transport mode:

	+ tunnel mode,  both ip header and payload is encrypted.  new ip packet encapsulates the encrypted one with a new header that is used for routing decisions.	
	+ transport mode, only ip payload is encrypted. but ip header is not encrypted. orginal ip header is used for routing decisions. 
	
	
	
 # protocols are used in IPsec:

      + AH: The AH protocol ensures that data packets are from a trusted source and that the data has not been tampered with from attackers.
	  + ESP: ESP encrypts the IP header and the payload for each packet.
	  + SA (security association): SA refers to a number of protocols used for negotiating encryption keys and algorithms. One of the most common SA protocols is Internet Key Exchange (IKE).

	
 # ipsec connection works:

		+ key-exchange: keys are necessary for encryption. key is a string of random characters that can be used to encrypt and decrypt message.
		
		+ packet headers and trailers: all data that is sent over a network is broken down into smaller pieces called packets. packets contain payload.
		ipsec adds several headers to data packets containing authentication and encryption information.

		+ authentication: ipsec provides authentication for each packet.		
		+ encryption: ipsec encrypts the payloads. 
		
		+ transmission: encrypted ipsec packets travel across one or more networks to their destination using a transport protocol.
		decryption: at the other end of the communication. the packets are decrypted.
		
